---
title: Convert PPTX to DOCX via C# .NET or with free Online Converter
url_ignore: /net/conversion/pptx-to-docx/ 
description: Convert PowerPoint pptx documents to Word docx files with C#. Convert multiple files within ASP.NET or other .NET applications.
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class isAutogenPage="true">}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/upper-banner-autogen-total h1="Convert PPTX to DOCX using C# or Free Online App" h2="Build PowerPoint PPTX Presentation to Word DOCX Document conversion apps on .NET Framework, .NET Core, Windows Azure, Mono or Xamarin Platforms" logoImageSrc="https://cms.admin.containerize.com/templates/aspose/img/products/total/aspose_total-for-net.svg" sourceAdditionalConversionTag="" additionalConversionTag="DOCX" pfName="Aspose.Total" subTitlepfName="for .NET" downloadUrl="" fileiconsmall1="HTML" fileiconsmall2="JPG" fileiconsmall3="PDF" fileiconsmall4="XML" fileiconsmall5="PPTX" >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container pfName="Aspose.Total " subTitlepfName="for .NET" >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/sub-menu autoGeneratedVersion="true" logoImageSrc="https://cms.admin.containerize.com/templates/aspose/img/products/total/aspose_total-for-net.svg" apiHomeLink="https://products.aspose.com/total/family/" codeSamplesLink="https://github.com/aspose-total" liveDemosLink="" docsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/total/net" installationsDocsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/total/net" nugetLink="https://www.nuget.org/packages/aspose.total" nugetPackageName="" downloadAsLink="https://releases.aspose.com/total/net" learnAsLink="https://docs.aspose.com/total/net" apiReference="" mavenRepoLink="" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="How to Convert PPTX to DOCX Using C#?" %}}
Automating batch conversion of PowerPoint pptx presentations to Word docx files can be a time-consuming and tedious task. Fortunately, with the help of Aspose.Slides for .NET and Aspose.Words for .NET APIs, this process can be streamlined and automated. [Aspose.Slides for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/slides/net) is a powerful API that allows developers to create or modify Microsoft PowerPoint slides, while [Aspose.Words for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/words/net) is a word processing API that can process or manipulate Microsoft Word documents. Both APIs are included in the Aspose.Total for .NET package, which makes it easy to use them together for batch conversion of files.

To get started with batch conversion, you can either download the [Aspose.Total for .NET](https://products.aspose.com/total/net) package directly from the NuGet package manager or use the following commands from the Package Manager Console. Once you have installed the necessary packages, you can write a script or code to automate the conversion process for multiple files, saving you time and effort.

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Package Manager Console Command" offSpacer="true" %}}

```cs
PM> Install-Package Aspose.Total

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section isGrey="true" >}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="Steps to Convert PPTX to DOCX via C#" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Total makes it easy for the developers to load & convert PPTX files to DOCX in just a few lines of code.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

1. Add reference of Aspose.Slides for .NET and Aspose.Words for .NET
1. Load PowerPoint PPTX presentation using [Aspose.Slides.Presentation](https://reference.aspose.com/slides/net/aspose.slides/presentation) class
1. Save the document into [MemoryStream](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.io.memorystream?view=net-5.0) Object
1. Create [Aspose.Words.Document](https://reference.aspose.com/words/net/aspose.words/document) and intialize it with MemoryStream Object
1. Save the document using [Aspose.Words.Document.Save("output.docx", SaveFormat.Docx)](https://reference.aspose.com/words/net/aspose.words.document/save/methods/3)

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col title="System Requirements" %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

 Aspose.Total for .NET is supported on all major operating systems. Just make sure that you have the following prerequisites. 

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/text %}}

-  Microsoft Windows or a compatible OS with .NET Framework, .NET Core, Windows Azure, Mono or Xamarin Platforms.
-  Development environment like Microsoft Visual Studio.
-  Aspose.Slides for .NET and Aspose.Words for .NET DLL referenced in your project.

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section-col %}}

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block title="Steps to convert a PPTX to DOCX using C#" offSpacer="" %}}

```cs// Load the Microsoft PowerPoint PPTX file
Aspose.Slides.Presentation pptx = new Aspose.Slides.Presentation("source.pptx");

var stream = new MemoryStream();

pptx.Save(stream, Aspose.Slides.Export.SaveFormat.Html);
stream.Flush();
stream.Seek(0, SeekOrigin.Begin);

// Load the content of the presentation to a Word document
var docx = new Aspose.Words.Document(stream);
      
// Save the Word DOCX document
docx.Save("output.docx", Aspose.Words.SaveFormat.Docx);

```

{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/code-block %}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/agp/feature-section >}}

<div class="container-fluid agp-content bg-white aboutfile box-1 vh100 section nopbtm">
<div class=container>
<div class=row>
<div class="demobox tc col-md-12 padding-0">

<h3>Online Converter for PPTX to DOCX</h3>

<iframe style="border: none; height: 426px;" scrolling="no" src="https://total-conversion-app-65z5r2lp.qa.k8s.dynabic.com/?to=docx&from=pptx" id="child-iframe" width="80%"></iframe>

</div></div>
</div></div>


<!-- aboutfile Starts -->

{{% blocks/products/pf/agp/content h2="About Aspose.Total" %}}

Aspose.Total for .NET is a collection of over 30 .NET components that provide a wide range of features for developers. Here are some of the features that Aspose.Total for .NET provides:

1. Document Conversion: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for converting documents to and from various file formats, including PDF, HTML, DOC, DOCX, XLS, XLSX, PPT, and more.
2. Reporting: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for creating reports and generating documents based on data from various data sources, including SQL databases, XML, JSON, and more.
3. Imaging: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for working with images, including image processing, resizing, and conversion between various image formats.
4. PDF Manipulation: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for working with PDF documents, including creating, editing, merging, splitting, and converting PDF files.
5. Barcodes: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for generating and reading various types of barcodes, including QR codes, Code 39, UPC, and more.
6. Email: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for working with email, including sending and receiving emails, managing email attachments, and more.
7. OCR: Aspose.Total for .NET provides components for performing optical character recognition (OCR) on scanned documents and images.

These are just some of the features that Aspose.Total for .NET provides. It is a comprehensive collection of .NET components that can help developers to perform a wide range of tasks related to document manipulation, conversion, and automation.
{{% /blocks/products/pf/agp/content %}}
<!-- aboutfile Ends -->

{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/other-autogen-total >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/agp/about-autogen-total >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
    
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}